---
title: Compiler Error WFO1000
description: Learn more about compiler error WFO1000. Property does not configure the code serialization for its content.
ms.date: 02/28/2025
f1_keywords:
  - "WFO1000"
helpviewer_keywords:
  - "WFO1000"
---

# Compiler Error WFO1000

**Version introduced:** .NET 9

> Property does not configure the code serialization for its property content.

Properties of classes derived from `Control` must indicate whether or not they're serializable. The designer needs this information to ensure that controls are serialized accurately.

By default, Windows Forms serializes every public property of a control that doesn't specify a serialization preference. This might result in leaking private data into the designer's serialization of the control. This error ensures that you explicitly declare the serialization of every public property of the control.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> This analyzer message was changed from an error in .NET 9 to a warning in .NET 10 Preview 2.

## To correct this error

Indicate serialization of the property.

If the property **should** be serialized, configure serialization in one of the following ways:

- Add <xref:System.ComponentModel.DefaultValueAttribute> to the property, specifying the default value. When the property is set to a value other than the default, the property is serialized.

- Add <xref:System.ComponentModel.DesignerSerializationVisibilityAttribute> to the property and set the visibility to either <xref:System.ComponentModel.DesignerSerializationVisibilityAttribute.Visible> or <xref:System.ComponentModel.DesignerSerializationVisibilityAttribute.Content>.

- Add a method named `ShouldSerialize<PropertyName>` and return a value that indicates whether or not the property should be serialized. For more information, see [Use Reset and ShouldSerialize to control a property](../controls-design/how-to-designer-properties-shouldserialize-reset.md).

If the property **shouldn't** be serialized, add <xref:System.ComponentModel.DesignerSerializationVisibilityAttribute> to the property and set the visibility to <xref:System.ComponentModel.DesignerSerializationVisibilityAttribute.Hidden>.

## Manage the error

Suppress the error with either of the following methods:

- Set the severity of the rule in the _.editorConfig_ file.

  ```ini
  [*.{cs,vb}]
  dotnet_diagnostic.WFO1000.severity = none
  ```

  For more information about editor config files, see [Configuration files for code analysis rules](/dotnet/fundamentals/code-analysis/configuration-files).

- Add the following `PropertyGroup` to your project file to suppress the error:

  ```xml
  <PropertyGroup>
      <NoWarn>$(NoWarn);WFO1000</NoWarn>
  </PropertyGroup>
  ```

- Suppress the error in code with the `#pragma warning disable WFO1000` directive.
