---
title: What's new in WinForms for .NET 10 Release Candidate
description: Learn about what's new in Windows Forms for .NET 10 Release Candidate. New versions of Windows Forms are released yearly with .NET.
ms.topic: whats-new
ms.date: 09/09/2025
ms.service: dotnet-desktop
ms.update-cycle: 365-days
dev_langs:
  - "csharp"
  - "vb"
#customer intent: As a developer, I want to know what's changed so that I can remain up-to-date.
---

# What's new in Windows Forms for .NET 10 Release Candidate

This article provides a high-level overview about what's new with Windows Forms (WinForms) in .NET 10 Release Candidate. For detailed information, see the [release announcements](#release-announcements).

.NET 10 RC 1 was released in September 2025.

## Release announcements

Each release announcement provides detailed information about Windows Forms changes for .NET 10:

- [.NET 10 RC1](https://aka.ms/dotnet/10/rc1)
- [.NET 10 Preview 7](https://aka.ms/dotnet/10/preview7)
- [.NET 10 Preview 6](https://aka.ms/dotnet/10/preview6)
- [.NET 10 Preview 5](https://aka.ms/dotnet/10/preview5)
- [.NET 10 Preview 4](https://aka.ms/dotnet/10/preview4)
- [.NET 10 Preview 3](https://aka.ms/dotnet/10/preview3)
- [.NET 10 Preview 2](https://aka.ms/dotnet/10/preview2)
- [.NET 10 Preview 1](https://aka.ms/dotnet/10/preview1)

## Clipboard changes

Windows Forms is shipping new code for the clipboard API. The clipboard is redesigned in a way that its code can be shared with Windows Presentation Foundation (WPF). Both desktop technologies now share the same code and unify how they interact with the clipboard.

.NET 9 obsoleted `BinaryFormatter`, which is used in some clipboard operations. These clipboard operations required you to opt in to compatibility package, or work around the operation. To ease the pain of moving away from `BinaryFormatter`, .NET 10 is obsoleting certain clipboard methods to indicate that they shouldn't be used. More methods are being added to help JSON serialization with clipboard data, circumventing the need for `BinaryFormatter`.

## Async forms

Windows Forms has fully integrated asyncronous forms support. Additionally, the async task now has a weak reference to the form, enabling responsive UIs when managing multiple windows.

Windows Forms for .NET 9 introduced new methods to support displaying forms and dialogs asyncronously, but in an opt-in preview mode where you had to suppress [Compiler Error WFO5002](../compiler-messages/wfo5002.md) to use the feature. This compiler error is no longer triggered with .NET 10.

The following APIs are no longer considered experimental:

- <xref:System.Windows.Forms.Form.ShowAsync(System.Windows.Forms.IWin32Window)?displayProperty=nameWithType>
- <xref:System.Windows.Forms.Form.ShowDialogAsync*?displayProperty=nameWithType>
- <xref:System.Windows.Forms.TaskDialog.ShowDialogAsync*?displayProperty=nameWithType>

## Custom designer improvements

Several <xref:System.Drawing.Design.UITypeEditor> types have been ported from .NET Framework, including `ToolStripCollectionEditor` and several editors related to the <xref:System.Windows.Forms.DataGridView> control. These editors are now discoverable by the <xref:System.Windows.Forms.PropertyGrid> and the Windows Forms Designer Actions panel.

SnapLines were fixed for custom designers.

## Dark mode

Windows Forms has fully integrated dark mode support.

Windows Forms for .NET 9 introduced preliminary dark mode visual styling, but in an opt-in preview mode where you had to suppress [Compiler Error WFO5001](../compiler-messages/wfo5001.md) to use the feature. This compiler error is no longer triggered with .NET 10.

The <xref:System.Windows.Forms.Application.SetColorMode(System.Windows.Forms.SystemColorMode)?displayProperty=nameWithType> API is no longer considered experimental.

## Clarification on ControlStyles `ApplyThemingImplicitly` usage

To opt-in to dark mode and light mode theming on custom controls, use [`SetStyle(ControlStyles.ApplyThemingImplicitly, true)`](xref:System.Windows.Forms.ControlStyles.ApplyThemingImplicitly?displayProperty=nameWithType). This must be set by overriding the <xref:System.Windows.Forms.Control.CreateParams?displayProperty=nameWithType> property, before the base class's `CreateParams` property is read. You cannot set this style in the constructor or after the control is initialized.

:::code language="csharp" source="./snippets/net100/csharp/CustomControl1.cs" id="CreateParams":::
:::code language="vb" source="./snippets/net100/vb/CustomControl1.vb" id="CreateParams":::

## Bug fixes

Here are some of the bugs fixed in Windows Forms for .NET 10:

- If the <xref:System.Windows.Forms.DataGridView> was in edit mode while the hosting dialog was closed, it would throw `InvalidOperationException`. The bug causing this has been fixed.
- [Compiler Error WFO1000](../compiler-messages/wfo1000.md) has been improved to reduce false positives related to interfaces that derive from `IComponent`.
- Fixed a regression with `PrinterSettings.DefaultPageSettings.Color` returning an incorrect value.
- Resolving a memory leak in the **MSHTML** component.

## Accessibility

Improved NVDA screen reader support.

## Code cleanup

Removed deprecated .NET runtime and unnecessary package references. Code style has been cleaned up to address warnings and improve code quality.

## ScreenCaptureMode API

A new API has been introduced to prevent screen capture applications (that use the Windows API) from capturing a form. This feature is useful to protect sensitive information, such as user names, user IDs, or passwords, from being leaked.

The `Form.ScreenCaptureMode` is set to one of the following values to control capture behavior:

- `Allow`&mdash;(Default) Allows the form to be captured.
- `HideContent`&mdash;The form appears blacked out when captured.
- `HideWindow`&mdash;Blurs the form when captured. (Requires Windows 10 20H1 version 2004 or higher.)

## Analyzer improvements

Existing analyzers have been fine-tuned to reduce false positives.

New analyzers have been added:

- [Warning WFDEV004 - `Form.OnClosing`, `Form.OnClosed` and the corresponding events are obsolete.](../wfdev-diagnostics/wfdev004.md)
- [Warning WFDEV005 - `GetData` methods are obsolete. Use `TryGetData<T>` methods instead.](../wfdev-diagnostics/wfdev005.md)
- [Warning WFDEV006 - Some controls are obsolete. They're provided for binary compatibility with .NET Framework.](../wfdev-diagnostics/wfdev006.md)
