---
title: What's new in WPF for .NET 10 Preview
description: Learn about what's new in Windows Presentation Foundation (WPF) for .NET 10 Preview. New versions of WPF are released yearly with .NET.
ms.topic: whats-new
ms.date: 03/17/2025
#customer intent: As a developer, I want to know what's changed so that I can remain up-to-date.
---

# What's new in WPF for .NET 10 Preview

This article describes what's new in Windows Presentation Foundation (WPF) for .NET 10 Preview.

.NET 10 Preview 2 was released on March 18, 2025.

## Release announcements

- [.NET 10 Preview 2](https://aka.ms/dotnet/10/preview2)
- [.NET 10 Preview 1](https://aka.ms/dotnet/10/preview1)

## Performance improvements

Performance was improved by replacing internal data structures with base .NET types, such as <xref:System.Collections.ObjectModel.ReadOnlyCollection`1>. This minimized allocations in UI automation and file dialogs, and speeding up pixel format conversions.

## Fluent style changes

Various bug fixes have been addressed in .NET 10, to improve the Fluent UI style support in WPF. Fluent UI style support is still in progress.

- Default style for <xref:System.Windows.Controls.Label>.
- Fixed the animation for <xref:System.Windows.Controls.Expander>.
- Fixed crashes related to `HighContrast`.

## Bug fixes

Addressed various bug fixes including UI element cursor types, crash issues when bitmap streams are null, build and test step errors, and minor bugs in <xref:System.Windows.Media.Imaging.BitmapMetadata> and native dependencies.

Addressed localization issues for <xref:System.Windows.Controls.ScrollViewer> and <xref:System.Windows.Controls.ContextMenu>.

Over 4,000 unit tests for `System.Xaml` and `WindowsBase` added.

## Code cleanup

Moving out of .NET Framework left behind unused Code Access Security (CAS) related attributes and code. Many of these have been removed in the .NET codebase.

- Remove unused CAS resource strings and its translations from all libraries.
- Remove unused CAS and XBAP code from `OleCmdHelper/ISecureCommand`.
- Remove unused CAS code from `FontSourceCollection/FontSource`.
