---
title: How to create a user control
description: This article teaches you how to create a user control, known as a composite control, that you can add to other forms.
ms.date: 06/19/2023
ms.topic: how-to
no-loc: ["UserControl", "UserControl1", "UserControlProject", "Label", "Button", "Form", "TextBox"]
dev_langs:
  - "csharp"
  - "vb"
f1_keywords: 
  - "UserControl"
helpviewer_keywords: 
  - "controls [Windows Forms], user controls"
  - "controls [Windows Forms], types of"
  - "composite controls [Windows Forms]"
  - "extended controls [Windows Forms]"
  - "controls [Windows Forms], extended"
  - "user controls [Windows Forms]"
  - "custom controls [Windows Forms]"
  - "controls [Windows Forms], composite"
---

# How to create a user control (Windows Forms .NET)

This article teaches you how to add a user control to your project and then add that user control to a form. You'll create a reusable user control that's both visually appealing and functional. The new control groups a <xref:System.Windows.Forms.TextBox> control with a <xref:System.Windows.Forms.Button> control. When the user selects the button, the text in the text box is cleared. For more information about user controls, see [User control overview](usercontrol-overview.md).

[!INCLUDE [desktop guide under construction](../../includes/desktop-guide-preview-note.md)]

## Add a user control to a project

After opening your Windows Forms project in Visual Studio, use the Visual Studio templates to create a user control:

01. In Visual Studio, find the **Project Explorer** window. Right-click on the project and choose **Add** > **User Control (Windows Forms)**.

    :::image type="content" source="./media/how-to-create-usercontrol/right-click.png" alt-text="Right-click the Visual Studio solution explorer to add a user control to a Windows Forms project":::

01. Set the **Name** of the control to **ClearableTextBox**, and press **Add**.

    :::image type="content" source="./media/how-to-create-usercontrol/new-usercontrol-dialog.png" alt-text="Add item dialog in Visual Studio for Windows Forms":::

After the user control is created, Visual Studio opens the designer:

:::image type="content" source="./media/how-to-create-usercontrol/designer.png" alt-text="The user control designer in Visual Studio for Windows Forms":::

## Design the clearable text box

The user control is made up of _constituent controls_, which are the controls you [create on the design surface](../controls/how-to-add-to-a-form.md), just like how you design a form. Follow these steps to add and configure the user control and its constituent controls:

01. With the designer open, the user control design surface should be the selected object. If it's not, click on the design surface to select it. Set the following properties in the **Properties** window:

    | Property    | Value      |
    |-------------|------------|
    | MinimumSize | `84, 53`   |
    | Size        | `191, 53`  |

01. Add a **Label** control. Set the following properties:

    | Property  | Value     |
    |----------|------------|
    | Name     | `lblTitle` |
    | Location | `3, 5`     |

01. Add a **TextBox** control. Set the following properties:

    | Property  | Value     |
    |----------|------------|
    | Name     | `txtValue` |
    | Anchor   | `Top, Left, Right` |
    | Location | `3, 23`    |
    | Size     | `148, 23`  |

01. Add a **Button** control. Set the following properties:

    | Property  | Value     |
    |----------|------------|
    | Name     | `btnClear` |
    | Anchor   | `Top, Right` |
    | Location | `157, 23`  |
    | Size     | `31, 23`   |
    | Text     | `↻`        |

    The control should look like the following image:

    :::image type="content" source="./media/how-to-create-usercontrol/example-initial-design.png" alt-text="Visual Studio with Windows Forms, showing the user control that was just designed.":::

01. Press <kbd>F7</kbd> to open the code editor for the `ClearableTextBox` class.
01. Make the following code changes:

    01. At the top of the code file, import the `System.ComponentModel` namespace.
    01. Add the `DefaultEvent` attribute to the class. This attribute sets which event is generated by the consumer when the control is double-clicked in the designer. The consumer being the object declaring and using this control.

        :::code language="csharp" source="./snippets/how-to-create-usercontrol/csharp/ClearableTextBox.cs" id="default_event":::
        :::code language="vb" source="./snippets/how-to-create-usercontrol/vb/ClearableTextBox.vb" id="default_event":::

    01. Add an event handler that forwards the [`TextBox.TextChanged`](xref:System.Windows.Forms.Control.TextChanged) event to the consumer:

        :::code language="csharp" source="./snippets/how-to-create-usercontrol/csharp/ClearableTextBox.cs" id="text_changed":::
        :::code language="vb" source="./snippets/how-to-create-usercontrol/vb/ClearableTextBox.vb" id="text_changed":::

        Notice that the event has the `Browsable` attribute declared on it. When the `Browsable` is applied to an event or property, it controls whether or not the item is visible in the **Properties** window when the control is selected in the designer. In this case, `true` is passed as a parameter to the attribute indicating that the event should be visible.

    01. Add a string property named `Text`, which forwards the [`TextBox.Text`](xref:System.Windows.Forms.Control.Text%2A) property to the consumer:

        :::code language="csharp" source="./snippets/how-to-create-usercontrol/csharp/ClearableTextBox.cs" id="text":::
        :::code language="vb" source="./snippets/how-to-create-usercontrol/vb/ClearableTextBox.vb" id="text":::

    01. Add a string property named `Title`, which forwards the [`Label.Text`](xref:System.Windows.Forms.Label.Text%2A) property to the consumer:

        :::code language="csharp" source="./snippets/how-to-create-usercontrol/csharp/ClearableTextBox.cs" id="title":::
        :::code language="vb" source="./snippets/how-to-create-usercontrol/vb/ClearableTextBox.vb" id="title":::

01. Switch back to the `ClearableTextBox` designer and double-click the `btnClear` control to generate a handler for the `Click` event. Add the following code for the handler, which clears the `txtValue` text box:

    :::code language="csharp" source="./snippets/how-to-create-usercontrol/csharp/ClearableTextBox.cs" id="click_event":::
    :::code language="vb" source="./snippets/how-to-create-usercontrol/vb/ClearableTextBox.vb" id="click_event":::

01. Finally, build the project by right-clicking the project in the **Solution Explorer** window, and selecting **Build**. There shouldn't be any errors, and after the build is finished, the `ClearableTextBox` control appears in the toolbox for use.

The next step is using the control in a form.

### Sample application

If you created a new project in the last section, you have a blank Form named **Form1**, otherwise, create a new form.

01. In the **Solution Explorer** window, double-click the form to open the designer. The form's design surface should be selected.
01. Set the form's `Size` property to `432, 315`.
01. Open the **Toolbox** window, and double-click the **ClearableTextBox** control. This control should be listed under a section named after your project.
01. Again, double-click on the **ClearableTextBox** control to generate a second control.
01. Move back to the designer and separate the controls so that you can see both of them.
01. Select one control and set the following properties:

    | Property  | Value         |
    |----------|----------------|
    | Name     | `ctlFirstName` |
    | Location | `12, 12`       |
    | Size     | `191, 53`      |
    | Title    | `First Name`   |

01. Select the other control and set the following properties:

    | Property  | Value        |
    |----------|---------------|
    | Name     | `ctlLastName` |
    | Location | `12, 71`      |
    | Size     | `191, 53`     |
    | Title    | `Last Name`   |

01. Back in the **Toolbox** window, add a label control to the form, and set the following properties:

    | Property  | Value        |
    |----------|---------------|
    | Name     | `lblFullName` |
    | Location | `12, 252`     |

01. Next, you need to generate the event handlers for the two user controls. In the designer, double-click on the `ctlFirstName` control. This action generates the event handler for the `TextChanged` event, and opens the code editor.
01. Swap back to the designer and double-click the `ctlLastName` control to generate the second event handler.
01. Swap back to the designer and double-click on the form's title bar. This action generates an event handler for the `Load` event.
01. In the code editor, add a method named `UpdateNameLabel`. This method combines both names to create a message, and assigns the message to the `lblFullName` control.

    :::code language="csharp" source="./snippets/how-to-create-usercontrol/csharp/Form1.cs" id="update_label":::
    :::code language="vb" source="./snippets/how-to-create-usercontrol/vb/Form1.vb" id="update_label":::

01. For both `TextChanged` event handlers, call the `UpdateNameLabel` method:

    :::code language="csharp" source="./snippets/how-to-create-usercontrol/csharp/Form1.cs" id="event_handlers":::
    :::code language="vb" source="./snippets/how-to-create-usercontrol/vb/Form1.vb" id="event_handlers":::

01. Finally, call the `UpdateNameLabel` method from the form's `Load` event:

    :::code language="csharp" source="./snippets/how-to-create-usercontrol/csharp/Form1.cs" id="load":::
    :::code language="vb" source="./snippets/how-to-create-usercontrol/vb/Form1.vb" id="load":::

Run the project and enter a first and last name:

:::image type="content" source="./media/how-to-create-usercontrol/running-app.png" alt-text="A Windows Forms app with two text boxes created from user controls, and a label.":::

Try pressing the `↻` button to reset one of the text boxes.
