---
title: What's new in WPF for .NET 10 Preview
description: Learn about what's new in Windows Presentation Foundation (WPF) for .NET 10 Preview. New versions of WPF are released yearly with .NET.
ms.topic: whats-new
ms.date: 04/09/2025
ms.service: dotnet-desktop
#customer intent: As a developer, I want to know what's changed so that I can remain up-to-date.
---

# What's new in WPF for .NET 10 Preview

This article provides a high-level overview about what's new with Windows Presentation Foundation (WPF) in .NET 10 Preview. For detailed information, see the [release announcements](#release-announcements).

.NET 10 Preview 3 was released in April 2025.

## Release announcements

- [.NET 10 Preview 3](https://aka.ms/dotnet/10/preview3)
- [.NET 10 Preview 2](https://aka.ms/dotnet/10/preview2)
- [.NET 10 Preview 1](https://aka.ms/dotnet/10/preview1)

## Performance improvements

Performance was improved by replacing internal data structures with base .NET types, such as <xref:System.Collections.ObjectModel.ReadOnlyCollection`1>. This minimized allocations in UI automation and file dialogs, and speeding up pixel format conversions.

Enhanced performance by optimizing cache operations, array handling, and migrating font collection loader to managed code.

## Fluent style changes

Various bug fixes have been addressed in .NET 10, to improve the Fluent UI style support in WPF. Fluent UI style support is still in progress.

- Fluent styles added more controls, such as <xref:System.Windows.Controls.Label>, <xref:System.Windows.Documents.Hyperlink>, <xref:System.Windows.Navigation.NavigationWindow>, <xref:System.Windows.Controls.GroupBox>, and <xref:System.Windows.Controls.GridSplitter>.
- Fixed the animation for <xref:System.Windows.Controls.Expander>.
- Fixed crashes related to `HighContrast`.
- Added missing <xref:System.Windows.Controls.ContentPresenter.RecognizesAccessKey> for controls.

## Bug fixes

Addressed various bug fixes including UI element cursor types, crash issues when bitmap streams are null, build and test step errors, and minor bugs in <xref:System.Windows.Media.Imaging.BitmapMetadata> and native dependencies.

Addressed localization issues for <xref:System.Windows.Controls.ScrollViewer> and <xref:System.Windows.Controls.ContextMenu>.

Over 4,000 unit tests for `System.Xaml` and `WindowsBase` added.

Enhanced performance by optimizing cache operations, array handling, and migrating font collection loader to managed code.

## Code cleanup

Moving out of .NET Framework left behind unused Code Access Security (CAS) related attributes and code. Many of these have been removed in the .NET codebase.

- Remove unused CAS resource strings and its translations from all libraries.
- Remove unused CAS and XBAP code from `OleCmdHelper/ISecureCommand`.
- Remove unused CAS code from `FontSourceCollection/FontSource`.

Conducted extensive code cleanups, including syntax standardization and argument clarity, to improve code readability and maintainability.

## Miscellaneous changes

- Incorporated design-time markup compilation to facilitate smoother development workflows.
